>> Shirley Wu: Finally,
I want to cover a little bit about
exploratory visualizations today.
Today, we've been talking
all about storytelling,
suppository visualizations and
what it takes the process to build those.
And so Susie and Elijah over at
Netflix helped me out with this
part just because I don't have
as much experience with that,
with exploratory data visualization.
But this is what they do day in and
day out at Netflix,
and they gave me some
really great insight.
So the very first thing the process that
they go through whenever they're trying to
build a new exploratory data visualization
is they'll have an initial meeting with
their stakeholders to figure out the most
important questions that they're trying
to ask and solve for, and then they'll
actually meet with their data engineers.
So that already is pretty
different from our process today.
Because unlike the sunny
data sets that we use today,
they have a dynamic live data set.
And so they need to work with
data engineers to kind of figure
out how can they get the data such that
like the data that's most important for
answering the questions come
back faster from the data base.
So they'll have a meeting
with the data engineers.
And after that,
they'll mark up their ideas in sketch or
they'll sandbox with semiotics
which is a library that
Elijah has written to make prototyping
data visualizations really, really quick.
And that kind of comes from their
experiences interfacing with stakeholders
and having to, in that meeting with
the stakeholders kind of prototype and
really quickly change
between visualizations and
see if that helps answer
the stakeholders's questions and
that also helps them see
the shape of the data.
And finally, they'll go and prototype and
iterate with the stakeholders
until they get something.
I think that the stakeholders
then can then take in,
use in their explorations and
try to answer their questions.
And so
I have some advice from the two of them.
So I asked them what are some things
that you might right into quite
often across all of the different
projects you've done.
And so one other things they said was,
it's a different data source
than I think when it's expository and
it's often very often SQL queries.
And so
when you're designing your visualization,
you have to take into account and plan for
the queries that might take longer.
And so it's especially important if you
have interactions that are filtering or
aggregating, or something.
If those filterings require additional
SQL queries or something and
they might take a few seconds
to ten seconds or whatever for
the results to come back, try and
plan around that or plan for that.
Either that or try and
make a lot of interactions, or try and
build a lot of your design around
the data that comes back quicker.
And when they're talking with
their stakeholders often
time the questions that they
might ask them is what is
the business question that
you're trying to answer?
And also oftentimes, they'll talk about
metrics that they're comparing and
how do those metrics fall into
a decision that they're trying to make?
And they also talked about the level of
aggregation that's most effective for
that decision-making and
they gave the advice of get it to about
seven things that are granular,
and meaningful enough.
If not, the top ten of a default.
I think when they say that,
it means that a lot of stakeholders
will want to just get everything.
They just wanted to see every single
thing and it's our job while we're
talking to the stakeholders to kind
of get to the bottom of exactly
which parts of the data are the most
important to answer those questions,
and I thought this one
was really interesting.
A lot of these advice aren't code at all.
A lot of these advice are soft skills,
communication skills.
And they said it's really, really
important, especially in the organization
that doesn't really have
data virtualization and
doesn't really actually trust
data visualization yet and
they think of it as this flashy thing
like why would we need this flashy thing?
Gain trust and
credibility within the organization.
Because oftentimes, if we're coming
into an organization trying to bring and
communicate the value
of data visualization,
what we're competing with oftentimes is
tables of data like tables of Excel data.
And that's really detailed and
that's really hard to read, but
that's what they're used to and
they like the fact that they have
access to absolutely everything.
And we want to kinda
convince them like no,
actually you don't want access
to absolutely everything.
Let me show you this way or a this way to
kind of just narrow in on the data that
will help you answer the question.
And finally, I like this one a lot.
People will get to a state that you never
designed for and they will error out.
So try and think through as many of
the edge cases that you can, but they'll
probably always just get to a point
that they were like how did you, what?
What were you thinking.
I before I went freelance,
I ran into this a lot too.
But that also goes back to into
building trusting credibility within
the organization, try and account for
as many edge cases as you can.